README.md, before:

# Tundra-Fetch
![license-MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/tundra-fetch.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/tundra-fetch)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/tylermurry/tundra-fetch.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/tylermurry/tundra-fetch)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/tylermurry/tundra-fetch/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/tylermurry/tundra-fetch)

Tundra-fetch is Javascript-based client for the [Tundra server](https://github.com/tylermurry/tundra-cli) that helps  with offline test data management - specifically for projects using the fetch http library.

### Installing the Client
`npm install --save tundra-fetch`

### Using the Client
There are two main uses for the client:

#### Intercepting Fetch Calls
This client is built to intercept all uses of the fetch library and forward them to the Tundra server to be recorded for offline use. To do this, we need to initialize the interceptor when the application starts up and direct it to our server:

```javascript
function someAppInitFunction() {
    require('tundra-fetch').interceptFetchCalls();
}
```
Intercepted calls are sent to `http://localhost:9091` by default but the port is configurable by specifying it in the first parameter - e.g.`interceptFetchCalls(9092)`.

The idea is to only enable this code before running a manual test of the app, so *ensure that you remove this before going to production or is toggled off for a production build*

#### Replay
After a profile has been captured, you now have an offline data store that can be replayed during an end-to-end test.

When and where you decide to load the profile is up to the specific needs of your application. However, getting the traffic from the profile to replay during the test execution is as simple as:

```javascript
import {replayProfile} from 'tundra-fetch'
...
loadProfile() {
    replayProfile(require("./fixtures/profiles/scenario1.json"));
}
```

##### Customizing Replay Behavior
For finer-grained control over replay functionality, you may specify an optional `config` parameter. For example:

```javascript
const config = {
  repeatMode: 'last'
}

replayProfile(require("./fixtures/profiles/scenario1.json", config));
```
###### Config options:

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ------ |
| headersToOmit | An array of header keys to ignore (ex. `['Accept-Encoding', 'User-Agent']`)|
| repeatMode | `errorAfterLast` (default): Replay exactly as recorded but throw an error for further requests<br>`first`: Always repeat the first recorded response<br>`last`: Replay exactly as recorded and then repeat the last request forever
| debuggingEnabled | `default: true` - All profile replay activity will be sent to the Tundra server and visible in the Tundra console. (Only available using `tundra-cli` 2.0.0 or higher)
| debugPort | `default: 9091` - The port number of the Tundra server to send request debug data.

#### Using Wildcards to Match Requests
There are times when an application will use dynamic data and the body, headers or url will not be *exactly* the same each time (ex. including the current date in the request body).

For these scenarios, Tundra provides a special wildcard syntax to allow requests to be fuzzy-matched:

##### Matching the Body

For example, let's say you have a profile with the following layout after capturing a request:
```javascript
[
  {
    "request": {
      "url": "https://www.someapi.com/user",
      "headers": { ... }
      },
      "method": "POST",
      "content": "{\"name\":\"John Doe\",\"created\":1533654607}"
    },
    "response": { ... }
  }
]
```
In this case, the `created` property in the content is just the current date, so this will change from request to request. To get around this, you can use `{{*}}`, which acts like a traditional wildcard matcher:
```javascript
...
"content": "{\"name\":\"John Doe\",\"created\":{{*}}}"
...
```

Now the request will be matched, no matter what the value of `created` is.

##### Matching the URL

```javascript
...
"url": "https://www.someapi.com/user?created={{*}}&name=John"
...
```

##### Matching Headers

```javascript
...
"headers": {
  "SomeHeader": "Wildcards can be {{*}} anywhere"
  ...
 }
...
```

### Working Example and More
The best way to understand this tool is to see is used in context. For a full, working example look at react-native-tundra (coming soon).

Additionally, it may be helpful to read this article on offline testing for the philosophy behind why Tundra was created: [Test your mobile app offline for lightning fast, reliable automation](https://medium.com/@tylermurry/test-your-mobile-app-offline-for-lightning-fast-reliable-automation-ec579d007dd7)

Commit message:

add matcher overrides for all matching items in tundra-fetch config

README.md, after:

# Tundra-Fetch
![license-MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-brightgreen.svg)
[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/tundra-fetch.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/tundra-fetch)
[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/tylermurry/tundra-fetch.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/tylermurry/tundra-fetch)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/tylermurry/tundra-fetch/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/tylermurry/tundra-fetch)

Tundra-fetch is Javascript-based client for the [Tundra server](https://github.com/tylermurry/tundra-cli) that helps  with offline test data management - specifically for projects using the fetch http library.

### Installing the Client
`npm install --save tundra-fetch`

### Using the Client
There are two main uses for the client:

#### Intercepting Fetch Calls
This client is built to intercept all uses of the fetch library and forward them to the Tundra server to be recorded for offline use. To do this, we need to initialize the interceptor when the application starts up and direct it to our server:

```javascript
function someAppInitFunction() {
    require('tundra-fetch').interceptFetchCalls();
}
```
Intercepted calls are sent to `http://localhost:9091` by default but the port is configurable by specifying it in the first parameter - e.g.`interceptFetchCalls(9092)`.

The idea is to only enable this code before running a manual test of the app, so *ensure that you remove this before going to production or is toggled off for a production build*

#### Replay
After a profile has been captured, you now have an offline data store that can be replayed during an end-to-end test.

When and where you decide to load the profile is up to the specific needs of your application. However, getting the traffic from the profile to replay during the test execution is as simple as:

```javascript
import {replayProfile} from 'tundra-fetch'
...
loadProfile() {
    replayProfile(require("./fixtures/profiles/scenario1.json"));
}
```

##### Customizing Replay Behavior
For finer-grained control over replay functionality, you may specify an optional `config` parameter. For example:

```javascript
const config = {
  repeatMode: 'last'
}

replayProfile(require("./fixtures/profiles/scenario1.json", config));
```
###### Config options:

| Option | Description |
| ------ | ------ |
| headersToOmit | An array of header keys to ignore (ex. `['Accept-Encoding', 'User-Agent']`)|
| repeatMode | `errorAfterLast` (default): Replay exactly as recorded but throw an error for further requests<br>`first`: Always repeat the first recorded response<br>`last`: Replay exactly as recorded and then repeat the last request forever
| debuggingEnabled | `default: true` - All profile replay activity will be sent to the Tundra server and visible in the Tundra console. (Only available using `tundra-cli` 2.0.0 or higher)
| debugPort | `default: 9091` - The port number of the Tundra server to send request debug data.

#### Using Wildcards to Match Requests
There are times when an application will use dynamic data and the body, headers or url will not be *exactly* the same each time (ex. including the current date in the request body).

For these scenarios, Tundra provides a special wildcard syntax to allow requests to be fuzzy-matched:

##### Matching the Body

For example, let's say you have a profile with the following layout after capturing a request:
```javascript
[
  {
    "request": {
      "url": "https://www.someapi.com/user",
      "headers": { ... }
      },
      "method": "POST",
      "content": "{\"name\":\"John Doe\",\"created\":1533654607}"
    },
    "response": { ... }
  }
]
```
In this case, the `created` property in the content is just the current date, so this will change from request to request. To get around this, you can use `{{*}}`, which acts like a traditional wildcard matcher:
```javascript
...
"content": "{\"name\":\"John Doe\",\"created\":{{*}}}"
...
```

Now the request will be matched, no matter what the value of `created` is.

##### Matching the URL

```javascript
...
"url": "https://www.someapi.com/user?created={{*}}&name=John"
...
```

##### Matching Headers

```javascript
...
"headers": {
  "SomeHeader": "Wildcards can be {{*}} anywhere"
  ...
 }
...
```

##### Overriding the matcher methods

```javascript
urlMatcher: (a, b) => a === b // this will override the tundra matcher to use this custom function
```
Other matchers with (a,b) inputs

- urlMatcher
- headersMatcher
- methodMatcher
- bodyMatcher
- headersToOmit

### Working Example and More
The best way to understand this tool is to see is used in context. For a full, working example look at react-native-tundra (coming soon).

Additionally, it may be helpful to read this article on offline testing for the philosophy behind why Tundra was created: [Test your mobile app offline for lightning fast, reliable automation](https://medium.com/@tylermurry/test-your-mobile-app-offline-for-lightning-fast-reliable-automation-ec579d007dd7)
